---
分类:
  - "网页裁剪"
标题: "Printing a Multiple Page Document (The Java™ Tutorials >        
            2D Graphics > Printing)"
描述: "This 2d Java tutorial describes 2d graphics, geometry, text APIs, images, printing, advanced 2d topics"
来源: "https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/2d/printing/set.html"
发布者: "Oracle-"
发布时间:
创建时间: "2026-06-27T18:00:00+08:00"
---
# Printing a Multiple Page Document (The Java™ Tutorials >        
            2D Graphics > Printing)

Documentation

[[二维图形-基本打印程序|A Basic Printing Program]]

[[二维图形-打印设置对话框|Using Print Setup Dialogs]]

Printing a Multiple Page Document

[[二维图形-打印服务|Working with Print Services and Attributes]]

[[二维图形-打印GUI内容|Printing the Contents of a User Interface]]

[[二维图形-Swing打印支持|Printing Support in Swing Components]]

[[二维图形-打印设置对话框|« Previous]] • [Trail](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/2d/TOC.html) • [[二维图形-打印服务|Next »]]

The Java Tutorials have been written for JDK 8. Examples and practices described in this page don't take advantage of improvements introduced in later releases and might use technology no longer available.  
See [Dev.java](https://dev.java/learn/) for updated tutorials taking advantage of the latest releases.  
See [Java Language Changes](https://docs.oracle.com/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/java/javase&id=java_language_changes) for a summary of updated language features in Java SE 9 and subsequent releases.  
See [JDK Release Notes](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/jdk-relnotes-index-2162236.html) for information about new features, enhancements, and removed or deprecated options for all JDK releases.

## Printing a Multiple Page Document

You have already learned how to use the [`Printable`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/awt/print/Printable.html) interface to print a single page document. However, documents are usually more than one physical page in length. *Pagination* is the process of identifying the location in a document where page breaks and printing accordingly.

In case of printing several graphics images, one per page, use the page index to iterate through these pages and print one on each page. For example, if several images are represented in the following array:

```text
BufferedImage[] images = new BufferedImage[10];
```

then use the `print()` method as shown in the following code fragment:

```java
public int print(Graphics graphics,
           PageFormat pageFormat, int pageIndex)
           throws PrinterException {

    if (pageIndex < images.length) {
        graphics.drawImage(images[pageIndex], 100, 100, null);
        return PAGE_EXISTS;
    } else {
        return NO_SUCH_PAGE:
    }
}
```

If the document is continuous, the application must calculate how much content can fit on each page, and break the page at that point. If text document consists of many lines, then an application must calculate how many of these lines can fit entirely on a page. The [`Point`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/awt/Point.html) class creates a point representing a location in (x,y)

To calculate the height of a single line of text, use the [`FontMetrics`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/awt/FontMetrics.html) class.

```text
Font font = new Font("Serif", Font.PLAIN, 10);
FontMetrics metrics = graphics.getFontMetrics(font);
int lineHeight = metrics.getHeight();
```

The `PageFormat` parameter describes the printable area of the page. In particular, to find the vertical span of the page use the following code fragment:

```text
double pageHeight = pageFormat.getImageableHeight();
```

Use the following code fragment to calculate the number of lines that fit on a page and the number of page breaks:

```text
int linesPerPage = ((int)pageHeight)/lineHeight);
int numBreaks = (textLines.length-1)/linesPerPage;
int[] pageBreaks = new int[numBreaks];
for (int b=0; b < numBreaks; b++) {
    pageBreaks[b] = (b+1)*linesPerPage; 
}
```

Use the `print()` method to calculate the printable area for the following reasons:

- Text measurement depends on the `FontRenderContext` and this is implicit in the `FontMetrics` object returned by the printer graphics which is not available except inside the `print()` method.
- The page format may not be disclosured until printing occurs. Since if the user selected a landscape mode in the print dialog, then this setting needs to be accounted for. The `PageFormat` object passed into the `print()` method provides this information.

The page break positions are used as represented in the following code fragment:

/* Draw each line that is on this page.
 * Increment 'y' position by lineHeight
 * for each line.
 */
int y = 0; 
int start = (pageIndex == 0) ? 0 : pageBreaks[pageIndex-1];
int end   = (pageIndex == pageBreaks.length)
                 ? textLines.length : pageBreaks[pageIndex];
for (int line=start; line<end; line++) {
    y += lineHeight;
    g.drawString(textLines[line], 0, y);
}

If a document contains 100 lines and only 48 lines fit on a page, then an application prints 3 pages with page breaks after 48 and 96 lines of text. The remaining 4 lines are printed on the last page. The complete code for this example is in [`PaginationExample.java`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/2d/printing/examples/PaginationExample.java).

The following simplifying factors are used in the `PaginationExample` code:

- Each page has the same height.
- The same font is used.