---
分类:
  - "网页裁剪"
标题: "Set up a Policy File to Grant the Required Permission (The Java™ Tutorials >        
            Security Features in Java SE > Creating a Policy File)"
描述: "This security Java tutorial describes usage of digital signatures, keys, and cryptography services"
来源: "https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/security/tour1/step2.html"
发布者: "Oracle-"
发布时间:
创建时间: "2026-06-27T18:00:00+08:00"
---

Documentation

Set up a Policy File to Grant the Required Permission

[[安全-策略文件-wstep1|Start Policy Tool]]

[[安全-策略文件-wstep2|Grant the Required Permission]]

[[安全-策略文件-wstep3|Save the Policy File]]

The Java Tutorials have been written for JDK 8. Examples and practices described in this page don't take advantage of improvements introduced in later releases and might use technology no longer available.  
See [Dev.java](https://dev.java/learn/) for updated tutorials taking advantage of the latest releases.  
See [Java Language Changes](https://docs.oracle.com/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/java/javase&id=java_language_changes) for a summary of updated language features in Java SE 9 and subsequent releases.  
See [JDK Release Notes](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/jdk-relnotes-index-2162236.html) for information about new features, enhancements, and removed or deprecated options for all JDK releases.

## Set up a Policy File to Grant the Required Permission

A policy file is an ASCII text file and can be composed via a text editor or the graphical Policy Tool utility demonstrated in this section. The Policy Tool saves you typing and eliminates the need for you to know the required syntax of policy files, thus reducing errors.

This lesson uses the Policy Tool to create a policy file named **`examplepolicy`**, in which you will add a *policy entry* that grants code from the **`examples`** directory permission to write.

Follow these steps to create and modify your new policy file:

1. [[安全-策略文件-wstep1|Start Policy Tool]]
2. [[安全-策略文件-wstep2|Grant the Required Permission]]
3. [[安全-策略文件-wstep3|Save the Policy File]]

---

**Note for UNIX Users:** The steps illustrate creating the policy file for a Windows system. The steps are exactly the same if you are working on a UNIX system. Where the text says to store the policy file in the `C:\Test` directory, you can store it in another directory. The examples in the lesson [[安全-控制应用|Quick Tour of Controlling Applications]] assume that you stored it in the `~/test` directory.

---