---
分类:
  - "网页裁剪"
标题: "Synchronization (The Java™ Tutorials >        
            Essential Java Classes > Concurrency)"
描述: "This Java tutorial describes exceptions, basic input/output, concurrency, regular expressions, and the platform environment"
来源: "https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/concurrency/sync.html"
发布者: "Oracle-"
发布时间:
创建时间: "2026-06-27T18:00:00+08:00"
---
# Synchronization (The Java™ Tutorials >        
            Essential Java Classes > Concurrency)

Documentation

[[并发-simple|« Previous]] • [Trail](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/TOC.html) • [[并发-线程干扰|Next »]]

The Java Tutorials have been written for JDK 8. Examples and practices described in this page don't take advantage of improvements introduced in later releases and might use technology no longer available.  
See [Dev.java](https://dev.java/learn/) for updated tutorials taking advantage of the latest releases.  
See [Java Language Changes](https://docs.oracle.com/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/java/javase&id=java_language_changes) for a summary of updated language features in Java SE 9 and subsequent releases.  
See [JDK Release Notes](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/jdk-relnotes-index-2162236.html) for information about new features, enhancements, and removed or deprecated options for all JDK releases.

## Synchronization

Threads communicate primarily by sharing access to fields and the objects reference fields refer to. This form of communication is extremely efficient, but makes two kinds of errors possible: *thread interference* and *memory consistency errors*. The tool needed to prevent these errors is *synchronization*.

However, synchronization can introduce *thread contention*, which occurs when two or more threads try to access the same resource simultaneously *and* cause the Java runtime to execute one or more threads more slowly, or even suspend their execution. [[并发-starvelive|Starvation and livelock]] are forms of thread contention. See the section [[并发-liveness|Liveness]] for more information.

This section covers the following topics:

- [[并发-线程干扰|Thread Interference]] describes how errors are introduced when multiple threads access shared data.
- [[并发-内存一致性错误|Memory Consistency Errors]] describes errors that result from inconsistent views of shared memory.
- [[并发-syncmeth|Synchronized Methods]] describes a simple idiom that can effectively prevent thread interference and memory consistency errors.
- [[并发-locksync|Implicit Locks and Synchronization]] describes a more general synchronization idiom, and describes how synchronization is based on implicit locks.
- [[并发-atomic|Atomic Access]] talks about the general idea of operations that can't be interfered with by other threads.