---
分类:
  - "网页裁剪"
标题: "Creating Extensible Applications (The Java™ Tutorials >        
            The Extension Mechanism > Creating and Using Extensions)"
描述: "This Java tutorial describes how to create and use extensions or optional packages and make them secure"
来源: "https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/ext/basics/spi.html"
发布者: "Oracle-"
发布时间:
创建时间: "2026-06-27T18:00:00+08:00"
---

Documentation

[Installed Extensions](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/ext/basics/install.html)

[Download Extensions](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/ext/basics/download.html)

[Understanding Extension Class Loading](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/ext/basics/load.html)

Creating Extensible Applications

[« Previous](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/ext/basics/load.html) • [Trail](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/ext/TOC.html) • [Next »](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/ext/security/index.html)

The Java Tutorials have been written for JDK 8. Examples and practices described in this page don't take advantage of improvements introduced in later releases and might use technology no longer available.  
See [Dev.java](https://dev.java/learn/) for updated tutorials taking advantage of the latest releases.  
See [Java Language Changes](https://docs.oracle.com/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/java/javase&id=java_language_changes) for a summary of updated language features in Java SE 9 and subsequent releases.  
See [JDK Release Notes](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/jdk-relnotes-index-2162236.html) for information about new features, enhancements, and removed or deprecated options for all JDK releases.

## Creating Extensible Applications

The following topics are covered:

## Introduction

An *extensible* application is one that you can extend without modifying its original code base. You can enhance its functionality with new plug-ins or modules. Developers, software vendors, and customers can add new functionality or application programming interfaces (APIs) by adding a new Java Archive (JAR) file onto the application class path or into an application-specific extension directory.

This section describes how to create applications with extensible services, which enable you or others to provide service implementations that require no modifications to the original application. By designing an extensible application, you provide a way to upgrade or enhance specific parts of a product without changing the core application.

One example of an extensible application is a word processor that allows the end user to add a new dictionary or spelling checker. In this example, the word processor provides a dictionary or spelling feature that other developers, or even customers, can extend by providing their own implementation of the feature.

The following are terms and definitions important to understand extensible applications:

Service

A set of programming interfaces and classes that provide access to some specific application functionality or feature. The service can define the interfaces for the functionality and a way to retrieve an implementation. In the word-processor example, a dictionary service can define a way to retrieve a dictionary and the definition of a word, but it does not implement the underlying feature set. Instead, it relies on a *service provider* to implement that functionality.

Service provider interface (SPI)

The set of public interfaces and abstract classes that a service defines. The SPI defines the classes and methods available to your application.

Service Provider

Implements the SPI. An application with extensible services enable you, vendors, and customers to add service providers without modifying the original application.

## Dictionary Service Example

Consider how you might design a dictionary service in a word processor or editor. One way is to define a service represented by a class named `DictionaryService` and a service provider interface named `Dictionary`. The `DictionaryService` provides a singleton `DictionaryService` object. (See the section [The Singleton Design Pattern](#singleton) for more information.) This object retrieves definitions of words from `Dictionary` providers. Dictionary service clients — your application code — retrieve an instance of this service, and the service will search, instantiate, and use `Dictionary` service providers.

Although the word-processor developer would most likely provide a basic, general dictionary with the original product, the customer might require a specialized dictionary, perhaps containing legal or technical terms. Ideally, the customer is able to create or purchase new dictionaries and add them to the existing application.

The `DictionaryServiceDemo` sample shows you how to implement a `Dictionary` service, create `Dictionary` service providers that add additional dictionaries, and create a simple `Dictionary` service client that tests the service. This sample, which is packaged in the zip file `DictionaryServiceDemo.zip`, consists of the following files:

- [`` `build.xml` ``](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/ext/basics/examples/DictionaryServiceDemo/build.xml)
- `DictionaryDemo`
	- [`` `build.xml` ``](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/ext/basics/examples/DictionaryServiceDemo/DictionaryDemo/build.xml)
		- `build`
		- `dist`
		- `DictionaryDemo.jar`
		- `src`
		- `dictionary`
			- [`` `DictionaryDemo.java` ``](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/ext/basics/examples/DictionaryServiceDemo/DictionaryDemo/src/dictionary/DictionaryDemo.java)
- `DictionaryServiceProvider`
	- [`` `build.xml` ``](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/ext/basics/examples/DictionaryServiceDemo/DictionaryDemo/build.xml)
		- `build`
		- `dist`
		- `DictionaryServiceProvider.jar`
		- `src`
		- `dictionary`
			- [`` `DictionaryService.java` ``](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/ext/basics/examples/DictionaryServiceDemo/DictionaryServiceProvider/src/dictionary/DictionaryService.java)
						- `spi`
				- [`` `Dictionary.java` ``](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/ext/basics/examples/DictionaryServiceDemo/DictionaryServiceProvider/src/dictionary/spi/Dictionary.java)
- `ExtendedDictionary`
	- [`` `build.xml` ``](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/ext/basics/examples/DictionaryServiceDemo/ExtendedDictionary/build.xml)
		- `build`
		- `dist`
		- `ExtendedDictionary.jar`
		- `src`
		- `dictionary`
			- [`` `ExtendedDictionary.java` ``](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/ext/basics/examples/DictionaryServiceDemo/ExtendedDictionary/src/dictionary/ExtendedDictionary.java)
				- `META-INF`
			- `services`
				- [`` `dictionary.spi.Dictionary` ``](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/ext/basics/examples/DictionaryServiceDemo/ExtendedDictionary/src/META-INF/services/dictionary.spi.Dictionary)
- `GeneralDictionary`
	- [`` `build.xml` ``](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/ext/basics/examples/DictionaryServiceDemo/GeneralDictionary/build.xml)
		- `build`
		- `dist`
		- `GeneralDictionary.jar`
		- `src`
		- `dictionary`
			- [`` `GeneralDictionary.java` ``](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/ext/basics/examples/DictionaryServiceDemo/GeneralDictionary/src/dictionary/GeneralDictionary.java)
				- `META-INF`
			- `services`
				- [`` `dictionary.spi.Dictionary` ``](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/ext/basics/examples/DictionaryServiceDemo/GeneralDictionary/src/META-INF/services/dictionary.spi.Dictionary)

**Note**: The `build` directories contain the compiled class files of the Java source files contained in the `src` directory in the same level.

## Running the DictionaryServiceDemo Sample

Because the zip file `DictionaryServiceDemo.zip` contains compiled class files, you can unzip this file to your computer and run the sample without compiling it by following these steps:

1. Download and unzip the sample code: Download and unzip the file `DictionaryServiceDemo.zip` to your computer. It is These steps assume that you unzipped the contents of this file into the directory `C:\DictionaryServiceDemo`.
2. Change the current directory to `C:\DictionaryServiceDemo\DictionaryDemo` and follow the step [Run the Client](#run-the-client).

## Compiling and Running the DictionaryServiceDemo Sample

The `DictionaryServiceDemo` sample includes Apache Ant build files, which are all named `build.xml`. The following steps show you how to use Apache Ant to compile, build, and run the `DictionaryServiceDemo` sample:

1. Install Apache Ant: Go to the following link to download and install Apache Ant:
	`http://ant.apache.org/`
	Ensure that the directory that contains the Apache Ant executable file is in your `PATH` environment variable so that you can run it from any directory. In addition, ensure that your JDK's `bin` directory, which contains the `java` and `javac` executables (`java.exe` and `javac.exe` for Microsoft Windows). is in your `PATH` environment variable. See [[Java核心类库-平台环境-PATH与CLASSPATH|PATH and CLASSPATH]] for information about setting the `PATH` environment variable.
2. Download and unzip the sample code: Download and unzip the file `DictionaryServiceDemo.zip` to your computer. These steps assume that you unzipped the contents of this file into the directory `C:\DictionaryServiceDemo`.
3. Compile the code: Change the current directory to `C:\DictionaryServiceDemo` and run the following command:
	```
	ant compile-all
	```
	This command compiles the source code in the `src` directories contained in the directories `DictionaryDemo`, `DictionaryServiceProvider`, `ExtendedDictionary`, and `GeneralDictionary`, and puts the generated `class` files in the corresponding `build` directories.
4. Package the compiled Java files into JAR files: Ensure the current directory is `C:\DictionaryServiceDemo` and run the following command:
	```
	ant jar
	```
	This command creates the following JAR files:
	- `DictionaryDemo/dist/DictionaryDemo.jar`
		- `DictionaryServiceProvider/dist/DictionaryServiceProvider.jar`
		- `GeneralDictionary/dist/GeneralDictionary.jar`
		- `ExtendedDictionary/dist/ExtendedDictionary.jar`
5. Run the sample: Ensure that the directory that contains the `java` executable is in your `PATH` environment variable. See [[Java核心类库-平台环境-PATH与CLASSPATH|PATH and CLASSPATH]] for more information.
	Change the current directory to `C:\DictionaryServiceDemo\DictionaryDemo` and run the following command:
	```
	ant run
	```
	The sample prints the following:
	`book: a set of written or printed pages, usually bound with a protective cover   editor: a person who edits   xml: a document standard often used in web services, among other things   REST: an architecture style for creating, reading, updating, and deleting data that attempts to use the common vocabulary of the HTTP protocol; Representational State Transfer`

## Understanding the DictionaryServiceDemo Sample

The following steps show you how to re-create the contents of the file `DictionaryServiceDemo.zip`. These steps show you how the sample works and how to run it.

### 1\. Define the Service Provider Interface

The `DictionaryServiceDemo` sample defines one SPI, the [`` `Dictionary.java` ``](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/ext/basics/examples/DictionaryServiceDemo/DictionaryServiceProvider/src/dictionary/spi/Dictionary.java) interface. It contains only one method:

```java
package dictionary.spi;

public interface Dictionary {
    public String getDefinition(String word);
}
```

The sample stores the compiled class file in the directory `DictionaryServiceProvider/build`.

### 2\. Define the Service That Retrieves the Service Provider Implementations

The [`` `DictionaryService.java` ``](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/ext/basics/examples/DictionaryServiceDemo/DictionaryServiceProvider/src/dictionary/DictionaryService.java) class loads and accesses available `Dictionary` service providers on behalf of dictionary service clients:

```java
package dictionary;

import dictionary.spi.Dictionary;
import java.util.Iterator;
import java.util.ServiceConfigurationError;
import java.util.ServiceLoader;

public class DictionaryService {

    private static DictionaryService service;
    private ServiceLoader<Dictionary> loader;

    private DictionaryService() {
        loader = ServiceLoader.load(Dictionary.class);
    }

    public static synchronized DictionaryService getInstance() {
        if (service == null) {
            service = new DictionaryService();
        }
        return service;
    }

    public String getDefinition(String word) {
        String definition = null;

        try {
            Iterator<Dictionary> dictionaries = loader.iterator();
            while (definition == null && dictionaries.hasNext()) {
                Dictionary d = dictionaries.next();
                definition = d.getDefinition(word);
            }
        } catch (ServiceConfigurationError serviceError) {
            definition = null;
            serviceError.printStackTrace();

        }
        return definition;
    }
}
```

The sample stores the compiled class file in the directory `DictionaryServiceProvider/build`.

The `DictionaryService` class implements the singleton design pattern. This means that only a single instance of the `DictionaryService` class is ever created. See the section [The Singleton Design Pattern](#singleton) for more information.

The `DictionaryService` class is the dictionary service client's entry point to using any installed `Dictionary` service provider. Use the [`ServiceLoader.load`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/ServiceLoader.html#load-java.lang.Class-) method to retrieve the private static member `DictionaryService.service`, the singleton service entry point. Then the application can call the `getDefinition` method, which iterates through available `Dictionary` providers until it finds the targeted word. The `getDefinition` method returns null if no `Dictionary` instance contains the specified definition of the word.

The dictionary service uses the `ServiceLoader.load` method to find the target class. The SPI is defined by the interface `dictionary.spi.Dictionary`, so the example uses this class as the load method's argument. The default load method searches the application class path with the default class loader.

However, an overloaded version of this method enables you to specify custom class loaders if you wish. That enables you to do more sophisticated class searches. A particularly enthusiastic programmer might, for example, create a [`ClassLoader`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/lang/ClassLoader.html) instance that can search in an application-specific subdirectory that contains provider JARs added during runtime. The result is an application that does not require a restart to access new provider classes.

After a loader for this class exists, you can use its iterator method to access and use each provider that it finds. The `getDefinition` method uses a `Dictionary` iterator to go through the providers until it finds a definition for the specified word. The iterator method caches `Dictionary` instances, so successive calls require little additional processing time. If new providers have been placed into service since the last invocation, the iterator method adds them to the list.

The [`` `DictionaryDemo.java` ``](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/ext/basics/examples/DictionaryServiceDemo/DictionaryDemo/src/dictionary/DictionaryDemo.java) class uses this service. To use the service, the application obtains a `DictionaryService` instance and calls the `getDefinition` method. If a definition is available, the application prints it. If a definition is not available, the application prints a message stating that no available dictionary carries the word.

#### The Singleton Design Pattern

A design pattern is a general solution to a common problem in software design. The idea is that the solution gets translated into code, and that code can be applied in different situations where the problem occurs. The singleton pattern describes a technique to ensure that only a single instance of a class is ever created. In essence, the technique takes the following approach: Do not let anyone outside the class create instances of the object.

For example, the [`` `DictionaryService` ``](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/ext/basics/examples/DictionaryServiceDemo/DictionaryServiceProvider/src/dictionary/DictionaryService.java) class implements the singleton pattern as follows:

- Declares the `DictionaryService` constructor as `private`, which prevents all other classes, except `DictionaryService`, from creating instances of it.
- Defines the `DictionaryService` member variable `service` as `static`, which ensures only one instance of `DictionaryService` exists.
- Defines the method `getInstance`, which enables other classes controlled access to the `DictionaryService` member variable `service`.

### 3\. Implement the Service Provider

To provide this service, you must create a [`` `Dictionary.java` ``](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/ext/basics/examples/DictionaryServiceDemo/DictionaryServiceProvider/src/dictionary/spi/Dictionary.java) implementation. To keep things simple, create a general dictionary that defines just a few words. You can implement the dictionary with a database, a set of property files, or any other technology. The easiest way to demonstrate the provider pattern is to include all the words and definitions within a single file.

The following code shows an implementation of the `Dictionary` SPI, the [`` `GeneralDictionary.java` ``](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/ext/basics/examples/DictionaryServiceDemo/GeneralDictionary/src/dictionary/GeneralDictionary.java) class. Notice that it provides a no-argument constructor and implements the `getDefinition` method defined by the SPI.

```java
package dictionary;

import dictionary.spi.Dictionary;
import java.util.SortedMap;
import java.util.TreeMap;

public class GeneralDictionary implements Dictionary {

    private SortedMap<String, String> map;
    
    public GeneralDictionary() {
        map = new TreeMap<String, String>();
        map.put(
            "book",
            "a set of written or printed pages, usually bound with " +
                "a protective cover");
        map.put(
            "editor",
            "a person who edits");
    }

    @Override
    public String getDefinition(String word) {
        return map.get(word);
    }

}
```

The sample stores the compiled class file in the directory `GeneralDictionary/build`. **Note**: You must compile the classes `dictionary.DictionaryService` and `dictionary.spi.Dictionary` before the class `GeneralDictionary`.

The `GeneralDictionary` provider for this example defines just two words: *book* and *editor*. Obviously, a more usable dictionary would provide a more substantial list of generally used vocabulary.

To demonstrate how multiple providers can implement the same SPI, the following code shows yet another possible provider. The [`` `ExtendedDictionary.java` ``](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/ext/basics/examples/DictionaryServiceDemo/ExtendedDictionary/src/dictionary/ExtendedDictionary.java) service provider is an extended dictionary containing technical terms familiar to most software developers.

```java
package dictionary;

import dictionary.spi.Dictionary;
import java.util.SortedMap;
import java.util.TreeMap;

public class ExtendedDictionary implements Dictionary {

        private SortedMap<String, String> map;

    public ExtendedDictionary() {
        map = new TreeMap<String, String>();
        map.put(
            "xml",
            "a document standard often used in web services, among other " +
                "things");
        map.put(
            "REST",
            "an architecture style for creating, reading, updating, " +
                "and deleting data that attempts to use the common " +
                "vocabulary of the HTTP protocol; Representational State " +
                "Transfer");
    }

    @Override
    public String getDefinition(String word) {
        return map.get(word);
    }

}
```

The sample stores the compiled class file in the directory `ExtendedDictionary/build`. **Note**: You must compile the classes `dictionary.DictionaryService` and `dictionary.spi.Dictionary` before the class `ExtendedDictionary`.

It is easy to imagine customers using a complete set of `Dictionary` providers for their own special needs. The service loader API enables them to add new dictionaries to their application as their needs or preferences change. Because the underlying word-processor application is extensible, no additional coding is required for customers to use the new providers.

### 4\. Register Service Providers

To register your service provider, you create a provider configuration file, which is stored in the `META-INF/services` directory of the service provider's JAR file. The name of the configuration file is the fully qualified class name of the service provider, in which each component of the name is separated by a period (`.`), and nested classes are separated by a dollar sign (`$`).

The provider configuration file contains the fully qualified class names of your service providers, one name per line. The file must be UTF-8 encoded. Additionally, you can include comments in the file by beginning the comment line with the number sign (`#`).

For example, to register the service provider `GeneralDictionary` create a text file named [`` `dictionary.spi.Dictionary` ``](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/ext/basics/examples/DictionaryServiceDemo/GeneralDictionary/src/META-INF/services/dictionary.spi.Dictionary). This file contains one line:

```
dictionary.GeneralDictionary
```

Similarly, to register the service provider `ExtendedDictionary` create a text file named [`` `dictionary.spi.Dictionary` ``](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/ext/basics/examples/DictionaryServiceDemo/ExtendedDictionary/src/META-INF/services/dictionary.spi.Dictionary). This file contains one line:

```
dictionary.ExtendedDictionary
```

### 5\. Create a Client That Uses the Service and Service Providers

Because developing a full word-processor application is a significant undertaking, this tutorial provides a simpler application that uses the `DictionaryService` and `Dictionary` SPI. The `DictionaryDemo` sample searches for the words *book*, *editor*, *xml*, and *REST* words from any `Dictionary` providers on the class path and retrieves their definitions.

The following is the [`` `DictionaryDemo` ``](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/ext/basics/examples/DictionaryServiceDemo/DictionaryDemo/src/dictionary/DictionaryDemo.java) sample. It requests a definition of the target word from the `DictionaryService` instance, which passes the request to its known `Dictionary` providers.

```java
package dictionary;

import dictionary.DictionaryService;

public class DictionaryDemo {

  public static void main(String[] args) {

    DictionaryService dictionary = DictionaryService.getInstance();
    System.out.println(DictionaryDemo.lookup(dictionary, "book"));
    System.out.println(DictionaryDemo.lookup(dictionary, "editor"));
    System.out.println(DictionaryDemo.lookup(dictionary, "xml"));
    System.out.println(DictionaryDemo.lookup(dictionary, "REST"));
  }

  public static String lookup(DictionaryService dictionary, String word) {
    String outputString = word + ": ";
    String definition = dictionary.getDefinition(word);
    if (definition == null) {
      return outputString + "Cannot find definition for this word.";
    } else {
      return outputString + definition;
    }
  }
}
```

The sample stores the compiled class file in the directory `DictionaryDemo/build`. **Note**: You must compile the classes `dictionary.DictionaryService` and `dictionary.spi.Dictionary` before the class `DictionaryDemo`.

### 6\. Package the Service Providers, the Service, and the Service Client in JAR Files

See the lesson [[将程序打包为JAR文件|Packaging Programs in JAR Files]] for information about how to create JAR files.

#### Packaging Service Providers in JAR Files

To package the `GeneralDictionary` service provider, create a JAR file named `GeneralDictionary/dist/GeneralDictionary.jar` that contains the compiled class file of this service provider and the configuration file in the following directory structure:

- `META-INF`
	- `services`
		- `dictionary.spi.Dictionary`
- `dictionary`
	- `GeneralDictionary.class`

Similarly, to package the `ExtendedDictionary` service provider, create a JAR file named `ExtendedDictionary/dist/ExtendedDictionary.jar` that contains the compiled class file of this service provider and the configuration file in the following directory structure:

- `META-INF`
	- `services`
		- `dictionary.spi.Dictionary`
- `dictionary`
	- `ExtendedDictionary.class`

Note that the provider configuration file must be in the directory `META-INF/services` in the JAR file.

#### Packaging the Dictionary SPI and Dictionary Service in a JAR File

Create a JAR file named `DictionaryServiceProvider/dist/DictionaryServiceProvider.jar` that contains the following files:

- `dictionary`
	- `DictionaryService.class`
		- `spi`
		- `Dictionary.class`

#### Packaging the Client in a JAR File

Create a JAR file named `DictionaryDemo/dist/DictionaryDemo.jar` that contains the following file:

- `dictionary`
	- `DictionaryDemo.class`

### 7\. Run the Client

The following command runs the `DictionaryDemo` sample with the `GeneralDictionary` service provider:

**Linux and Solaris:**

`java -Djava.ext.dirs=../DictionaryServiceProvider/dist:../GeneralDictionary/dist -cp dist/DictionaryDemo.jar dictionary.DictionaryDemo`

**Windows:**

`java -Djava.ext.dirs=..\DictionaryServiceProvider\dist;..\GeneralDictionary\dist -cp dist\DictionaryDemo.jar dictionary.DictionaryDemo`

When using this command, the following is assumed:

- The current directory is `DictionaryDemo`.
- The following JAR files exist:
	- `DictionaryDemo/dist/DictionaryDemo.jar`: Contains the `DictionaryDemo` class
		- `DictionaryServiceProvider/dist/DictionaryServiceProvider.jar`: Contains the `Dictionary` SPI and the `DictionaryService` class
		- `GeneralDictionary/dist/GeneralDictionary.jar`: Contains the `GeneralDictionary` service provider and configuration file

The command prints the following:

```batch
book: a set of written or printed pages, usually bound with a protective cover
editor: a person who edits
xml: Cannot find definition for this word.
REST: Cannot find definition for this word.
```

Suppose you run the following command and `ExtendedDictionary/dist/ExtendedDictionary.jar` exists:

**Linux and Solaris:**

`java -Djava.ext.dirs=../DictionaryServiceProvider/dist:../ExtendedDictionary/dist -cp dist/DictionaryDemo.jar dictionary.DictionaryDemo`

**Windows:**

`java -Djava.ext.dirs=..\DictionaryServiceProvider\dist;..\ExtendedDictionary\dist -cp dist\DictionaryDemo.jar dictionary.DictionaryDemo`

The command prints the following:

```
book: Cannot find definition for this word.
editor: Cannot find definition for this word.
xml: a document standard often used in web services, among other things
REST: an architecture style for creating, reading, updating, and deleting data that attempts to use the common vocabulary of the HTTP protocol; Representational State Transfer
```

## The ServiceLoader Class

The `java.util.ServiceLoader` class helps you find, load, and use service providers. It searches for service providers on your application's class path or in your runtime environment's extensions directory. It loads them and enables your application to use the provider's APIs. If you add new providers to the class path or runtime extension directory, the `ServiceLoader` class finds them. If your application knows the provider interface, it can find and use different implementations of that interface. You can use the first loadable instance of the interface or iterate through all the available interfaces.

The `ServiceLoader` class is final, which means that you cannot make it a subclass or override its loading algorithms. You cannot, for example, change its algorithm to search for services from a different location.

From the perspective of the `ServiceLoader` class, all services have a single type, which is usually a single interface or abstract class. The provider itself contains one or more concrete classes that extend the service type with an implementation specific to its purpose. The `ServiceLoader` class requires that the single exposed provider type has a default constructor, which requires no arguments. This enables the `ServiceLoader` class to easily instantiate the service providers that it finds.

Providers are located and instantiated on demand. A service loader maintains a cache of the providers that were loaded. Each invocation of the loader's `iterator` method returns an iterator that first yields all of the elements of the cache, in instantiation order. The service loader then locates and instantiates any new providers, adding each one to the cache in turn. You can clear the provider cache with the `reload` method.

To create a loader for a specific class, provide the class itself to the `load` or `loadInstalled` method. You can use default class loaders or provide your own `ClassLoader` subclass.

The `loadInstalled` method searches the runtime environment's extension directory of installed runtime providers. The default extension location is your runtime environment's `jre/lib/ext` directory. You should use the extension location only for well-known, trusted providers because this location becomes part of the class path for all applications. In this article, providers do not use the extension directory but will instead depend on an application-specific class path.

## Limitations of the ServiceLoader API

The `ServiceLoader` API is useful, but it has limitations. For example, it is impossible to derive a class from the `ServiceLoader` class, so you cannot modify its behavior. You can use custom `ClassLoader` subclasses to change how classes are found, but `ServiceLoader` itself cannot be extended. Also, the current `ServiceLoader` class cannot tell your application when new providers are available at runtime. Additionally, you cannot add change-listeners to the loader to find out whether a new provider was placed into an application-specific extension directory.

The public `ServiceLoader` API is available in Java SE 6. Although the loader service existed as early as JDK 1.3, the API was private and only available to internal Java runtime code.

## Summary

Extensible applications provide service points that can be extended by service providers. The easiest way to create an extensible application is to use the `ServiceLoader`, which is available for Java SE 6 and later. Using this class, you can add provider implementations to the application class path to make new functionality available. The `ServiceLoader` class is final, so you cannot modify its abilities.