---
分类:
  - "网页裁剪"
标题: "Questions and Exercises: Classes (The Java™ Tutorials >        
            Learning the Java Language > Classes and Objects)"
描述: "This beginner Java tutorial describes fundamentals of programming in the Java programming language"
来源: "https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/javaOO/QandE/creating-questions.html"
发布者: "Oracle-"
发布时间:
创建时间: "2026-06-27T18:00:00+08:00"
---
# Questions and Exercises: Classes (The Java™ Tutorials >        
            Learning the Java Language > Classes and Objects)

Documentation

[[类与对象-classes|Classes]]

[[类与对象-classdecl|Declaring Classes]]

[[类与对象-variables|Declaring Member Variables]]

[[类与对象-方法|Defining Methods]]

[[类与对象-constructors|Providing Constructors for Your Classes]]

[[类与对象-arguments|Passing Information to a Method or a Constructor]]

[[类与对象-objects|Objects]]

[[类与对象-objectcreation|Creating Objects]]

[[类与对象-usingobject|Using Objects]]

[[类与对象-more|More on Classes]]

[[类与对象-returnvalue|Returning a Value from a Method]]

[[类与对象-thiskey|Using the this Keyword]]

[[类与对象-accesscontrol|Controlling Access to Members of a Class]]

[[类与对象-类成员|Understanding Class Members]]

[[类与对象-initial|Initializing Fields]]

[[类与对象-summaryclasses|Summary of Creating and Using Classes and Objects]]

Questions and Exercises

[[类与对象-objects-questions|Questions and Exercises]]

[[类与对象-嵌套类|Nested Classes]]

[[类与对象-innerclasses|Inner Class Example]]

[[类与对象-局部类|Local Classes]]

[[类与对象-匿名类|Anonymous Classes]]

[[类与对象-Lambda表达式|Lambda Expressions]]

[[类与对象-方法引用|Method References]]

[[类与对象-whentouse|When to Use Nested Classes, Local Classes, Anonymous Classes, and Lambda Expressions]]

[[类与对象-nested-questions|Questions and Exercises]]

[[类与对象-enum|Enum Types]]

[[类与对象-enum-questions|Questions and Exercises]]

[[类与对象-summaryclasses|« Previous]] • [Trail](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/TOC.html) • [[类与对象-objects-questions|Next »]]

The Java Tutorials have been written for JDK 8. Examples and practices described in this page don't take advantage of improvements introduced in later releases and might use technology no longer available.  
See [Dev.java](https://dev.java/learn/) for updated tutorials taking advantage of the latest releases.  
See [Java Language Changes](https://docs.oracle.com/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/java/javase&id=java_language_changes) for a summary of updated language features in Java SE 9 and subsequent releases.  
See [JDK Release Notes](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/jdk-relnotes-index-2162236.html) for information about new features, enhancements, and removed or deprecated options for all JDK releases.

## Questions and Exercises: Classes

## Questions

1. Consider the following class:
	```java
	public class IdentifyMyParts {
	    public static int x = 7; 
	    public int y = 3; 
	}
	1. What are the class variables?
		2. What are the instance variables?
		3. What is the output from the following code:
		```java
		IdentifyMyParts a = new IdentifyMyParts();
		IdentifyMyParts b = new IdentifyMyParts();
		a.y = 5;
		b.y = 6;
		a.x = 1;
		b.x = 2;
		System.out.println("a.y = " + a.y);
		System.out.println("b.y = " + b.y);
		System.out.println("a.x = " + a.x);
		System.out.println("b.x = " + b.x);
		System.out.println("IdentifyMyParts.x = " + IdentifyMyParts.x);

## Exercises

1. Write a class whose instances represent a single playing card from a deck of cards. Playing cards have two distinguishing properties: rank and suit. Be sure to keep your solution as you will be asked to rewrite it in [[类与对象-enum-questions|Enum Types]].
	---
	**Hint:**
	You can use the `assert` statement to check your assignments. You write:
```text
	assert (boolean expression to test);
```
	If the boolean expression is false, you will get an error message. For example,
```text
	assert toString(ACE) == "Ace";
```
	should return `true`, so there will be no error message.
	If you use the `assert` statement, you must run your program with the `ea` flag:
```text
	java -ea YourProgram.class
```
	---
2. Write a class whose instances represent a **full** deck of cards. You should also keep this solution.
3. 3\. Write a small program to test your deck and card classes. The program can be as simple as creating a deck of cards and displaying its cards.

[[类与对象-creating-answers|Check your answers.]]