---
分类:
  - "网页裁剪"
标题: "Reduction (The Java™ Tutorials >        
            Collections > Aggregate Operations)"
描述: "This collections Java tutorial describes interfaces, implementations, and algorithms in the Java Collections framework"
来源: "https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/collections/streams/reduction.html"
发布者: "Oracle-"
发布时间:
创建时间: "2026-06-27T18:00:00+08:00"
---

Documentation

Reduction

[[聚合操作-并行|Parallelism]]

[Questions and Exercises](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/collections/streams/QandE/questions.html)

The Java Tutorials have been written for JDK 8. Examples and practices described in this page don't take advantage of improvements introduced in later releases and might use technology no longer available.  
See [Dev.java](https://dev.java/learn/) for updated tutorials taking advantage of the latest releases.  
See [Java Language Changes](https://docs.oracle.com/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/java/javase&id=java_language_changes) for a summary of updated language features in Java SE 9 and subsequent releases.  
See [JDK Release Notes](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/jdk-relnotes-index-2162236.html) for information about new features, enhancements, and removed or deprecated options for all JDK releases.

## Reduction

The section [[聚合操作|Aggregate Operations]] describes the following pipeline of operations, which calculates the average age of all male members in the collection `roster`:

```
double average = roster
    .stream()
    .filter(p -> p.getGender() == Person.Sex.MALE)
    .mapToInt(Person::getAge)
    .average()
    .getAsDouble();
```

The JDK contains many terminal operations (such as [`average`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/stream/IntStream.html#average--java/lang/reflect/Executable.html), [`sum`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/stream/IntStream.html#sum--), [`min`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/stream/Stream.html#min-java.util.Comparator-), [`max`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/stream/Stream.html#max-java.util.Comparator-), and [`count`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/stream/Stream.html#count--)) that return one value by combining the contents of a stream. These operations are called *reduction operations*. The JDK also contains reduction operations that return a collection instead of a single value. Many reduction operations perform a specific task, such as finding the average of values or grouping elements into categories. However, the JDK provides you with the general-purpose reduction operations [`reduce`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/stream/Stream.html#reduce-T-java.util.function.BinaryOperator-) and [`collect`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/stream/Stream.html#collect-java.util.function.Supplier-java.util.function.BiConsumer-java.util.function.BiConsumer-), which this section describes in detail.

This section covers the following topics:

- [The Stream.reduce Method](#reduce)
- [The Stream.collect Method](#collect)

You can find the code excerpts described in this section in the example [`ReductionExamples`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/collections/streams/examples/ReductionExamples.java).

## The Stream.reduce Method

The [`Stream.reduce`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/stream/Stream.html#reduce-T-java.util.function.BinaryOperator-) method is a general-purpose reduction operation. Consider the following pipeline, which calculates the sum of the male members' ages in the collection `roster`. It uses the [`Stream.sum`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/stream/IntStream.html#sum--) reduction operation:

```
Integer totalAge = roster
    .stream()
    .mapToInt(Person::getAge)
    .sum();
```

Compare this with the following pipeline, which uses the `Stream.reduce` operation to calculate the same value:

```
Integer totalAgeReduce = roster
   .stream()
   .map(Person::getAge)
   .reduce(
       0,
       (a, b) -> a + b);
```

The `reduce` operation in this example takes two arguments:

- `identity`: The identity element is both the initial value of the reduction and the default result if there are no elements in the stream. In this example, the identity element is `0`; this is the initial value of the sum of ages and the default value if no members exist in the collection `roster`.
- `accumulator`: The accumulator function takes two parameters: a partial result of the reduction (in this example, the sum of all processed integers so far) and the next element of the stream (in this example, an integer). It returns a new partial result. In this example, the accumulator function is a lambda expression that adds two `Integer` values and returns an `Integer` value:
	```
	(a, b) -> a + b
	```

The `reduce` operation always returns a new value. However, the accumulator function also returns a new value every time it processes an element of a stream. Suppose that you want to reduce the elements of a stream to a more complex object, such as a collection. This might hinder the performance of your application. If your `reduce` operation involves adding elements to a collection, then every time your accumulator function processes an element, it creates a new collection that includes the element, which is inefficient. It would be more efficient for you to update an existing collection instead. You can do this with the [`Stream.collect`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/stream/Stream.html#collect-java.util.function.Supplier-java.util.function.BiConsumer-java.util.function.BiConsumer-) method, which the next section describes.

## The Stream.collect Method

Unlike the `reduce` method, which always creates a new value when it processes an element, the [`collect`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/stream/Stream.html#collect-java.util.function.Supplier-java.util.function.BiConsumer-java.util.function.BiConsumer-) method modifies, or mutates, an existing value.

Consider how to find the average of values in a stream. You require two pieces of data: the total number of values and the sum of those values. However, like the `reduce` method and all other reduction methods, the `collect` method returns only one value. You can create a new data type that contains member variables that keep track of the total number of values and the sum of those values, such as the following class, [`Averager`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/collections/streams/examples/Averager.java):

```java
class Averager implements IntConsumer
{
    private int total = 0;
    private int count = 0;
        
    public double average() {
        return count > 0 ? ((double) total)/count : 0;
    }
        
    public void accept(int i) { total += i; count++; }
    public void combine(Averager other) {
        total += other.total;
        count += other.count;
    }
}
```

The following pipeline uses the `Averager` class and the `collect` method to calculate the average age of all male members:

```java
Averager averageCollect = roster.stream()
    .filter(p -> p.getGender() == Person.Sex.MALE)
    .map(Person::getAge)
    .collect(Averager::new, Averager::accept, Averager::combine);
                   
System.out.println("Average age of male members: " +
    averageCollect.average());
```

The `collect` operation in this example takes three arguments:

- `supplier`: The supplier is a factory function; it constructs new instances. For the `collect` operation, it creates instances of the result container. In this example, it is a new instance of the `Averager` class.
- `accumulator`: The accumulator function incorporates a stream element into a result container. In this example, it modifies the `Averager` result container by incrementing the `count` variable by one and adding to the `total` member variable the value of the stream element, which is an integer representing the age of a male member.
- `combiner`: The combiner function takes two result containers and merges their contents. In this example, it modifies an `Averager` result container by incrementing the `count` variable by the `count` member variable of the other `Averager` instance and adding to the `total` member variable the value of the other `Averager` instance's `total` member variable.

Note the following:

- The supplier is a lambda expression (or a method reference) as opposed to a value like the identity element in the `reduce` operation.
- The accumulator and combiner functions do not return a value.
- You can use the `collect` operations with parallel streams; see the section [[聚合操作-并行|Parallelism]] for more information. (If you run the `collect` method with a parallel stream, then the JDK creates a new thread whenever the combiner function creates a new object, such as an `Averager` object in this example. Consequently, you do not have to worry about synchronization.)

Although the JDK provides you with the `average` operation to calculate the average value of elements in a stream, you can use the `collect` operation and a custom class if you need to calculate several values from the elements of a stream.

The `collect` operation is best suited for collections. The following example puts the names of the male members in a collection with the `collect` operation:

```
List<String> namesOfMaleMembersCollect = roster
    .stream()
    .filter(p -> p.getGender() == Person.Sex.MALE)
    .map(p -> p.getName())
    .collect(Collectors.toList());
```

This version of the `collect` operation takes one parameter of type [`Collector`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/stream/Collector.html). This class encapsulates the functions used as arguments in the `collect` operation that requires three arguments (supplier, accumulator, and combiner functions).

The [`Collectors`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/stream/Collectors.html) class contains many useful reduction operations, such as accumulating elements into collections and summarizing elements according to various criteria. These reduction operations return instances of the class `Collector`, so you can use them as a parameter for the `collect` operation.

This example uses the [`Collectors.toList`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/stream/Collectors.html#toList--) operation, which accumulates the stream elements into a new instance of `List`. As with most operations in the `Collectors` class, the `toList` operator returns an instance of `Collector`, not a collection.

The following example groups members of the collection `roster` by gender:

```
Map<Person.Sex, List<Person>> byGender =
    roster
        .stream()
        .collect(
            Collectors.groupingBy(Person::getGender));
```

The [`groupingBy`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/stream/Collectors.html#groupingBy-java.util.function.Function-) operation returns a map whose keys are the values that result from applying the lambda expression specified as its parameter (which is called a *classification function*). In this example, the returned map contains two keys, `Person.Sex.MALE` and `Person.Sex.FEMALE`. The keys' corresponding values are instances of `List` that contain the stream elements that, when processed by the classification function, correspond to the key value. For example, the value that corresponds to key `Person.Sex.MALE` is an instance of `List` that contains all male members.

The following example retrieves the names of each member in the collection `roster` and groups them by gender:

```
Map<Person.Sex, List<String>> namesByGender =
    roster
        .stream()
        .collect(
            Collectors.groupingBy(
                Person::getGender,                      
                Collectors.mapping(
                    Person::getName,
                    Collectors.toList())));
```

The [`groupingBy`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/stream/Collectors.html#groupingBy-java.util.function.Function-java.util.stream.Collector-) operation in this example takes two parameters, a classification function and an instance of `Collector`. The `Collector` parameter is called a *downstream collector*. This is a collector that the Java runtime applies to the results of another collector. Consequently, this `groupingBy` operation enables you to apply a `collect` method to the `List` values created by the `groupingBy` operator. This example applies the collector [`mapping`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/stream/Collectors.html#mapping-java.util.function.Function-java.util.stream.Collector-java.util.stream.Collector-), which applies the mapping function `Person::getName` to each element of the stream. Consequently, the resulting stream consists of only the names of members. A pipeline that contains one or more downstream collectors, like this example, is called a *multilevel reduction*.

The following example retrieves the total age of members of each gender:

```
Map<Person.Sex, Integer> totalAgeByGender =
    roster
        .stream()
        .collect(
            Collectors.groupingBy(
                Person::getGender,                      
                Collectors.reducing(
                    0,
                    Person::getAge,
                    Integer::sum)));
```

The [`reducing`](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/stream/Collectors.html#reducing-U-java.util.function.Function-java.util.function.BinaryOperator-) operation takes three parameters:

- `identity`: Like the `Stream.reduce` operation, the identity element is both the initial value of the reduction and the default result if there are no elements in the stream. In this example, the identity element is `0`; this is the initial value of the sum of ages and the default value if no members exist.
- `mapper`: The `reducing` operation applies this mapper function to all stream elements. In this example, the mapper retrieves the age of each member.
- `operation`: The operation function is used to reduce the mapped values. In this example, the operation function adds `Integer` values.

The following example retrieves the average age of members of each gender:

```
Map<Person.Sex, Double> averageAgeByGender = roster
    .stream()
    .collect(
        Collectors.groupingBy(
            Person::getGender,                      
            Collectors.averagingInt(Person::getAge)));
```